In parallel with the brain-activity studies, the mind studies con-
tinued with the solitude-isolation-tank work and its origins at the
National Institute of Mental Health (1954). Why is isolation neces-
sary for the study of mind? My reasoning was founded on a basic
tenet of certain experimental sciences (physics, biology, etcetera) :
in order to adequately study a system, all known influences to and
from that system must either be attenuated below threshold for
excitation, reliably accounted for, or eliminated to avoid unplanned
disturbances of that system. Disturbances from unknown sources
may then be found and dealt with more adequately.

Using this injunction from experimental science, I decided to
isolate my body-brain-mind, insofar as this is currently possible
(without damage-"trance"-chemicals) in the external reality. I saw
that to study my own mind, it must be isolated from all known
"sources" of stimulation and from "sinks" of reaction, in the here-
and-now external reality. I devised the isolation tank method for
the study of my own mind, an isolated mind studying its own
processes, free of feedback with the external world. Quite quickly
I found this method gave a new source of data of great richness.

During such studies over the last 21 years (1954-1975) I have
found that which began to open during the years with Robert
Waelder: a newness, a uniqueness, a penetration deep into new (for
me) domains of the mind. (Some of these experiences and domains
are recounted in limited-by-consensus-articles-books-lectures: see
republished papers in appendixes to Simulations of God: The
Science of Belief ; in References and Categorized Bibliography in
Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer ,
and in Recommended Reading in The Center of the Cyclone , and
other portions of The Dyadic Cyclone.)

The limitations placed upon communication of these new domains
of the mind to other minds were also found: once one has been deep
in one's deeper and deeper Self (it deepens at every exposure to
isolation), one's ability to transmit the data must also be in-
creased. I found that most (not all) other minds are not prepared to
